Add TDX and SEV-SNP proposal documents (#410)
kubevirt/community: design-proposals/tdx_snp.md

# Overview

This proposal deals with the enablement of the following technologies: Intel
TDX & AMD Secure Encrypted Virtualization with Secure Nested Paging (SEV-SNP)
in kubevirt. This enablement includes the support for creating confidential VMs
by using TDX & SEV-SNP by encrypting VM memory. For Intel TDX, This proposal

> relies on the attestation by using trustee client and the trustee operator.

Author: I removed the sentence about trustee.

For AMD, SEV is currently supported in KubeVirt, and this VEP proposes to build
on top of this feature and integrates SEV-SNP support.

## Motivation

Organizations are now asking for workloads to include the strongest
confidential computing security guarantees.

For AMD, KubeVirt supports SEV and SEV-ES for memory encryption, but lacks
SEV-SNP enhanced memory integrity protection.

For Intel, Add support for TDX technology for in-use memory encryption of
confidential guests.

## Proposal

- Enable TDX VM Deployment: Provide users the ability to deploy VMs that are
  utilizing INTEL TDX technology.

> - Enable TDX VM Blob Generation: Provide users the ability to generate the blob

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Enable TDX VM Guote Generation: Provide users the ability to generate the quote
```

Author: I remove the line about quote generation.

  deploy Confidential Compute workloads with TDX enabled.
- As a Cluster Admin, I need to ensure that my clusters have the correct
  labeling that shows the correct TDX labels are showing up on my nodes.
- As a Developer, I want to deploy VMs on a platform with TDX protection to
  meet compliance requirements for memory integrity.
- As a Developer, I want to deploy VMs without needing to understand the low
  level INTEL technology.
- As a Developer, I want to generate the blob for VMs on a platform with TDX
  protection technology.
- As a Cluster Admin, I want to enable SEV-SNP on cluster nodes so that tenants
  can deploy Confidential Compute workloads with SEV-SNP enabled.
- As a Cluster Admin, I need to ensure that my clusters have the correct
  labeling that shows the correct SEV and SEV-SNP labels are showing up on my
  nodes.
- As a Developer, I want to deploy VMs on a platform with SEV-SNP protection to
  meet compliance requirements for memory integrity.
- As a Developer, I want to deploy VMs without needing to understand the low
  level AMD technology.

## Repos

- [KubeVirt](https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt)

> ## Design

Author: @mythi can you move the question to https://github.com/kubevirt/enhancements/pull/79? Thanks.

### TDX Design
A new TDX Feature Gate should be added first. Extend the node labeller to

> detect and label nodes capable of running TDX VMs, a corresponding node

Author: @mythi can you move the question to https://github.com/kubevirt/enhancements/pull/79? Thanks.

     </launchSecurity>
     ...
   </domain>
```
All parameters are optional. Note the Libvirt support is not ready in upstream,
refer to the
https://github.com/intel/libvirt-tdx/commit/962325568e67014c2ff2e41a673374fafd44e385
for the explanation of the parameters. From the implementation perspective,
extend the VMI spec to map to the parameters:

```xml
   spec:
     domain:
       launchSecurity:
         tdx:
           policy: 0x10000000
           mrConfigId: xxx
           mrOwner: xxx
           mrOwnerConfig: xxx
           qgs: true
```

For the Quote Generation Service(QGS), Libvirt currently only provides unix
socket support, and it will use `/var/run/tdx-qgs/qgs.socket` when the path is
not specified. As there is only one QGS service running on the host, and QGS is
started with the default unix socket, just let Libvirt configures QGS in the
default way. All parameters are optional to configure a TDX VM, please refer to
API Examples.

When the corresponding label applies, i.e., TDXLabel, the QGS service is
launched as a container in the virt-handler pod. We decide to use one instance
of QGS per node. The decision is based on leveraging QGS cache and the resource

> consumption that could represent having one instance per VM.

Reviewer: From my point of view, there's a need for a cloud-native setup that works for both KubeVirt and CoCo TDX baremetal. Maybe other configurations too if they come up. It's also more complicated than just QGS and `mpa_agent` since we need to manage platform registration, TCB recovery, and certificates caching (we are not allowed to set PCCS_URL to Intel PCS directly) and doing all of this also in an air-gapped environments where there is no internet connectivity (`mpa_agent` is online only).

> consumption that could represent having one instance per VM.

Author: I see, do you think all that should be cover in the current PR regarding enablement?

> consumption that could represent having one instance per VM.

Author: Or we should define an scope?

> consumption that could represent having one instance per VM.

Reviewer: My suggestion would be we scope out "attestation infrastructure setup" from this VEP.

> consumption that could represent having one instance per VM.

Reviewer: Yes

> consumption that could represent having one instance per VM.

Author: I see, I am bit confuse, do you think none change is required in kubevirt to support attestation? I though that you would need a bit of infrastructure to, for example, let QEMU communicate with QGS.

> consumption that could represent having one instance per VM.

Reviewer: The cluster/node admin is expected to setup QGS (it could be a `daemonSet` or a service running in the OS) that provides `/var/run/tdx-qgs/qgs.socket` host path.  KubeVirt only needs to ensure that QEMU can access it.

> consumption that could represent having one instance per VM.

Reviewer: I don't know how KubeVirt  (virt-launcher?) handles `hostPath` dir mounts. Any docs on this? In general, a socket access does not need a device plugin since its access is not limited by the device whitelist cgroup controller.
